#Legend:
#Note: 
#ADD Book Chapter Charname - will deactivate the current active thread IN THE PREVIOUS CHAPTER - thus, if you want to add a thread in the middle of a chapter, you should deactivate the active thread explicitly in that chapter first.
#REMOVE Book Chapter Charname. The chapter should be the last chapter in which this thread appears.
#MERGE Book Chapter Charname1 Charname2 - If Charname2 doesn't exist from before, will add a new thread that is together with Charname1. In that case, charname2 will be set as the active thread. If two threads are already merged, a third thread only needs to be merged with one of them.
#SPLIT Book Chapter Charname1 Charname2  - If Charname2 doesn't exist from before, will create a thread that splits off Charname1. In that case, charname2 will be set as the active thread
#EVENT Book Chapter Significance Description - Mostly for fluff. Significance can be either 'major', 'minor' or just 'summary', if you want to add a chapter summary but nothing very interesting happened.
#ACTIVATE Book Chapter Charname - Makes Charname's thread 'active' - i.e. from this chapter on, we follow this character. Then, when focus is switched to another character, DEACTIVATE is called automatically. These commands are thus NOT for when a character dies or vanishes from the story completely. When a thread is ADDed, it is automatically ACTIVATEd. If focus switches to another character in the middle of a chapter, you should call DEACTIVATE manually, since the ACTIVATE command otherwise assumes that the chapter in which it is called starts with the newly activated thread.
#DEACTIVATE Book Chapter Charname - see ACTIVATE. The chapter should be the last chapter in which this thread is active. Only need to call this when a thread is ACTIVATEd in the middle of a chapter.
#prologues have chapter number 0. Epilogues are -1.

ADD 1 0 "Lews Therin Thelamon"
EVENT 1 0 Major "The creation of Dragonmount and the island of Tar Valon"
ADD 1 1 "Rand al'Thor"
EVENT 1 1 Summary "Rand and Tam transports cider to Emond's field. Rand and Mat independently see a black-cloaked rider."
EVENT 1 2 Minor "Moiraine and Lan are introduced"
EVENT 1 3 Minor "Padan Fain enters Emond's field."
EVENT 1 3 Summary "Padan Fain brings rumors of war and a Dragon in Ghealdan. Perrin also saw the black-cloaked rider."
EVENT 1 4 Minor "Thom Merrilin is introduced"
EVENT 1 4 Summary "Rand and Tam returns to the farm"
EVENT 1 5 Minor "Trollocs attack the farm"
EVENT 1 6 Minor "Tam fever-speaks and hints that Rand may not be his son"
EVENT 1 7 Summary "Rand arrives in Emond's field with Tam again, seeing that the whole village has been under attack. Moiraine is revealed to be Aes Sedai"
EVENT 1 8 Summary "Moiraine heals Tam. She tells Rand that the trollocs were after him, Mat or Perrin, and that they have to leave for Tar Valon."
EVENT 1 9 Summary "Moiraine tells the Emond's Fielders about Manetheren and their history"
EVENT 1 10 Major "The crew leaves Emond's Field."
EVENT 1 10 Summary "Egwene wants to join, Moiraine lets her. They see a Draghkar on the way out of Emond's Field."
EVENT 1 11 Summary "Moiraine removes the horses' fatigue. The crew arrives at Taren Ferry"
EVENT 1 12 Summary "The crew is ferried over the Taren. Moiraine sinks the ferry once they're over. Moiraine starts teaching Egwene about the One Power, and tells her that she may go far."
EVENT 1 13 Summary "The crew arrives in Baerlon and lodges at the Stag and Lion. The prophecy of the Sword that is not a Sword is mentioned."
Event 1 14 Minor "Min is introduced"
EVENT 1 14 Summary "Moiraine speaks to Min. The men take baths, and they all eat dinner in a private room. Rand, Mat and Perrin dreams of Ba'alzamon for the first time."
EVENT 1 15 Summary "Rats with broken backs are found all around the tavern, following the boys' dream with Ba'alzamon. Min tells Rand about her visions. Rand meets Padan Fain again, but he acts strangely and runs away. Rand and Mat have their first encounter with Geofram Bornhald and the Children of Light"
EVENT 1 15 Minor "Nynaeve joins the crew in Baerlon"
EVENT 1 16 Summary "Nynaeve and Moiraine argue. Nynaeve tells Rand that he was born outside Emond's Field."
EVENT 1 17 Summary "A Fade confronts Rand in the tavern, the crew leaves Baerlon, and has a run-in with the Children of the Light. Moiraine grows to a huge size to enable their escape."
EVENT 1 18 Summary "The crew are surrounded by trollocs who are hunting them. There is a skirmish. The crew enters Shadar Logoth"
EVENT 1 18 Minor "Mat uses the old tongue warcries for the first time."
EVENT 1 19 Summary "Rand, Mat and Perrin explore Shadar Logoth and meet Mordeth. Trollocs enter Shadar Logoth"
EVENT 1 19 Major "Mat steals Mordeth's dagger"
EVENT 1 20 Summary "The crew splits up, and escapes Mashadar and Shadar Logoth. Rand, Mat and Thom are chased onto the 'Spray' and is granted passage by Bayle Domon"
EVENT 1 20 Major "The party splits"
EVENT 1 20 Minor "Bayle Domon is introduced"
DEACTIVATE 1 20 "Rand al'Thor"
SPLIT 1 20 "Rand al'Thor" "Perrin Aybara"
ADD 1 21 "Nynaeve al'Meara"
EVENT 1 21 Summary "Nynaeve rejoins Moiraine and Lan. Moiraine tells her that she can channel the One Power, and that she may become more powerful than Egwene. She decides to learn to use it so she can use it against Moiraine"
ACTIVATE 1 22 "Perrin Aybara"
EVENT 1 22 Summary "Perrin finds Egwene. They decide to go to Caemlyn.
EVENT 1 23 Summary "Perrin and Egwene meets Elyas, and he decides to help them get to Caemlyn."
EVENT 1 23 Minor "Elyas is introduced"
ACTIVATE 1 24 "Rand al'Thor"
EVENT 1 24 Summary "Rand and Mat dream about Ba'alzamon again. Rand discovers Mat's dagger. They travel down the Arinelle"
ACTIVATE 1 25 "Perrin Aybara"
EVENT 1 25 Minor "Aram is introduced"
EVENT 1 25 Summary "Perrin, Egwene and Elyas meet the Tuatha'an. Aram flirts with Egwene"
ACTIVATE 1 26 "Rand al'Thor"
EVENT 1 26 Summary "Rand, Mat and Thom arrive in Whitebridge and leave Domon Bayle. They hear rumors that Logain has been captured. The Great Hunt is mentioned.
Thom saves the boys but is apparently killed by a Fade."
EVENT 1 26 Minor "Thom disappears"
ACTIVATE 1 27 "Perrin Aybara"
EVENT 1 27 "Perrin dreams about Ba'alzamon and wolves. Perrin, Egwene and Elyas leave the Tuatha'an."
ACTIVATE 1 28 "Nynaeve al'Meara"
EVENT 1 28 Summary "Nynaeve, Moiraine and Lan reach Whitebridge and hear rumors about Mat and Rand."
ACTIVATE 1 29 "Perrin Aybara"
EVENT 1 29 Summary "Perrin, Egwene and Elyas are being chased by ravens. They escape by going to a stedding where a statue of Artur Hawkwing is."
EVENT 1 30 Summary "Whitecloaks enter the stedding. Perrin kills two of them and Perrin and Egwene are captured."
EVENT 1 30 Minor "Byar is introduced"
EVENT 1 30 Minor "Hopper is killed by Whitecloaks"
EVENT 1 30 Minor "Perrin and Egwene captured by Whitecloaks"
ACTIVATE 1 31 "Rand al'Thor"
EVENT 1 31 Summary "Mat grows more suspicious. Rand and Mat travel towards Caemlyn, and lodge at various places. They meet Else at one of the farms."
EVENT 1 32 Summary "Rand and Mat arrive in Four Kings. They play and juggle at a suspicious tavern. The owner wants to steal their stuff, but a Darkfriend comes first. Lightning strikes the tavern just as they are about to be captured by the Darkfriend, and they escape."
EVENT 1 33 Summary "Rand and Mat travel towards Caemlyn. They are approached by another Darkfriend but escape. Rand gets a fever. A woman Darkfriend tries to kill him by pretending she wants to heal him, but Mat thwarts the attempt."
EVENT 1 34 Summary "Rand and Mat reach the last village before Caemlyn. A Fade is there, talking to the innkeeper. They hitch a ride with a wagoneer instead."
EVENT 1 35 Summary "Rand and Mat arrive at Caemlyn. Many are discontent with the Queen, blaming the bad weather on her dealings with Aes Sedai. They go to the Queen's blessing and tell Gill about Thom. Gill gives them room and food."
EVENT 1 35 Minor "Master Gill is introduced"
EVENT 1 36 Summary "Rand goes to the library of the Queen's Blessing and meets Loial, who tells him that Rand is ta'veren. Loial expresses a wish to go with Rand, but Rand declines."
EVENT 1 36 Minor "Loial is introduced"
ACTIVATE 1 37 "Nynaeve al'Meara"
EVENT 1 37 Summary "Nynaeve, Moiraine and Lan finds the Whitecloak camp where Perrin and Egwene is. Nynaeve cuts the horses' ropes and steals Bela and another horse. Moiraine calls down lightning to scare the horses away."
ACTIVATE 1 38 "Perrin Aybara"
EVENT 1 38 Summary "Perrin is almost killed by Byar but is rescued by Lan. Perrin, Egwene and Lan sneak out while lightning strikes. Nynaeve discovers that Perrins eyes are yellow, and Moiraine knows what it means. She tells them Elyas was once a Warder."
EVENT 1 38 Minor "First mention of Perrin's yellow eyes"
EVENT 1 38 Minor "Perrin and Egwene rescued by Moiraine, Nynaeve and Lan"
MERGE 1 38 "Perrin Aybara" "Nynaeve al'Meara"
ACTIVATE 1 39 "Rand al'Thor"
EVENT 1 39 Summary "Rand goes to see the procession of Logain through Caemlyn, while Mat sulks in his room. A beggar who has been asking for him sees him and starts pursuing him. Rand escapes and sees Logain on top of a wall before falling down when a voice startles him."
EVENT 1 39 Minor "Logain is officially introduced"
MERGE 1 40 "Rand al'Thor" "Perrin Aybara"
EVENT 1 40 Summary "Rand meets Elayne, Gawyn and Galad in the palace gardens. He is taken to Morgase, who lets him go, but not before Elaida Foretells that he will be at the heart of pain and division."
EVENT 1 40 Minor "Elayne is officially introduced"
EVENT 1 40 Minor "Gawyn is officially introduced"
EVENT 1 40 Minor "Galad is officially introduced"
EVENT 1 40 Minor "Morgase is officially introduced"
EVENT 1 40 Minor "Elaida is officially introduced"
EVENT 1 40 Minor "Gareth Bryne is officially introduced"
EVENT 1 40 Minor "Tallanvor is introduced"
EVENT 1 41 Summary "Rand tells Gill about his encounter with the Queen and Elaida, and Whitecloaks come to the tavern looking for 'a man from the Two Rivers', which Rand thinks is himself. Gill chases them away. Moiraine, Lan, Perrin, Egwene and Nynaeve arrives at the tavern. Moiraine identifies the dagger as the source of Mat's sickness."
EVENT 1 41 Minor "Reunification in Caemlyn (except for Thom)"
EVENT 1 41 Minor "Identification of Mat's disease"
EVENT 1 42 Summary "Moiraine heals Mat slightly, but says he must be taken to Tar Valon to do it properly. Mat, Rand and Perrin tells about their dreams. Hearing that the Eye of the World has been mentioned thrice from three different sources, Moiraine decides they must go there, and tells Loial to lead them into the Ways. Loial refuses."
EVENT 1 42 Minor "Mat is partly healed"
EVENT 1 43 Summary "Loial tells about the Ways, and Moiraine convinces everyone that they must go through them. The boys once more dreams of Ba'alzamon"
EVENT 1 44 Summary "The crew sneaks out of the Queen's Blessing and reach a Waystone below a shop in Caemlyn. They enter the Ways and walk along them until they reach a chasm"
